>> Steve Kinney: So do we have the
observable state, we have these actions,
which are maybe methods that
might change the state.
And then we have these derivations.
We had computer properties and reactions.
That auto run was a reaction, saying,
hey, I saw that text value changed.
I do stuff on text I value changed.
I changed the damn.
We used this in a prototype of our
upcoming code editor where the context API
wasn't fully out yet so I used MobX inside
the code editor cuz I wanted to keep it
totally separate from our Redux store.
And I basically had MobX managing all
the internal state of this effectively
text editor.
But then also, hey, anytime any these
properties change, I want you to call
the on change and the unsafe hooks
that we passed into the components.
So we used Redux,
we also used MobX as well to
kinda like together to do different
things, I think especially for
like stuff like our editors,
I'm very cool with.
Our ads product also, at this point,
uses MobX internally as well.
So computer properties update
their value based on the data,
reactions produce side effects, right?
So a computer property is a full name
changing, or the uppercase changing.
That side effect was, and
then you also go and manipulate the DOM.
That's kinda the the differences
we've seen before.
So here, we do something with
like a pizza calculator.
In this case,
this is a plain old ES6 class.
Number of people slices per person, we can
get the slices needed the pies needed,
we can add a guest.
If we wanted to make this an observable
using the decorator syntax,
is just effectively annotating it.
It's the same code, I'm doing
something like console logs in there.
And I'll tell you about the console
logs in a second, don't do those.
They're to make a point which is that
we're pulling an action observable on
the computer which are all decorators.
We're saying, hey,
I want to observe the number of people.
I wanna observe the slicesPerPerson
because if those change,
I need to update these
computed properties.
So like slices needed is basically derived
from number of people on slicesPerPerson,
pie's needed is derived from the slices
needed, and the slices per pie.
So we're watching, if any of these other
values change, I care and I need to know,
and then an action is saying like
this is a method that we can call.
It's predominantly
there's a strict mode and
call backs where you have to denote
all these actions with that action.
Without the strict mode,
you don't necessarily need to, but
I like the documentation portion of it.
So I would recommend them.
The reason that the console
log is super cool
is I talked about before we talked
a little bit about memorization and
selectors and
why this is really important.
One of the things that MobX will do for
you under the hood is if you call
slices needed, it will the first
time you call it, it will this case
do the very simple multiplication
If you call it a second time, and
neither the number of people nor
the slices per person have changed.
It will give you the cached version.
And it's lazy if either one of those
changes that won't go recomputing
everything, it will compete for the first
time the first time you asked for it.
If none of the properties that
it relies on have changed,
it will give you back that cash version.
And then should either one of those
change, it won't do any of the computation
until the next time you ask for
that computed property.
So a lot of the stuff we kinda
implemented, we get for free.
One of the really cool things is
Mendix which is the M in MobX,
it is the company where the Michel
Weststrate who wrote the library works.
They don't have a single should
component update in their code base
because effectively,
these values don't change
unless they need to actually trigger and
change.
So if you want it like classes are the
easiest to use for this cuz you can use
decorators, you can use decorators on top
of just plain old JavaScript functions or
JavaScript objects.
You can use them in classes.
That said, we kinda pointed
out in the very beginning that
decorators were just functions
with syntactic sugar.
Which means if you hate this decorator
stuff, turns out observable,
it's a decorator.
It's also just a function that can
wrap things so you can use it.
I like this, as well.
There is one piece of advice.
You notice that I included maps here.
I really like ES6 maps and stats and
I don't think they used often enough.
They're also mutable again.
So I have all the same problems and
react with them.
But the one thing why you might
consider using a map is that
when you pass a plain old
JavaScript object to observable,
it's only watching the properties
of the object when you pass it in
if you add a new property to that
object that is not being passed in.
So, like that's generally
speaking not a problem.
We're generally not adding new
properties to an object but
if you do, that will not be wrapped in.
Cuz all it does is it iterates
over the key of the object and
wraps each value in observable.
And so if you add a new one,
it's a plain old JavaScript property.
A map, you have a set function
where it can intercept that and
add the ability to observe it.
So you might wanna consider using a map
If you are gonna be adding keys later on.